# IEC60870-5-104

IEC60870-5-104 is a commonly used communication protocol in power automation systems. It uses the TCP/IP protocol as the underlying communication protocol and is used to monitor and control various devices in the power system, such as substations, generators, switches, etc.

Neuron supports the acquisition of remote signaling, remote measurement, and remote pulse (electricity call) data in the form of station interrogation, and supports the control of devices through remote control.

## Add Device

Go to **Configuration -> South Devices**, then click **Add Device** to add the driver. Configure the following settings in the popup dialog box.

- Name: The name of this device node.
- Plugin: Select the **IEC60870-5-104** plugin.

## Device Configuration

After clicking **Create**, you will be redirected to the **Device Configuration** page, where we will set up the parameters required for Neuron to establish a connection with the northbound application. You can also click the device configuration icon on the southbound device card to enter the **Device Configuration** interface.

## Parameters

| Parameter   | Description  |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| **Device IP Address**     | Target device IPv4 address|
| **Device Port**     | Target device port, default 2404 |
| **Common Address**       | ASDU Address|
| **Station Interrogation Interval** | Optional, station interrogation interval |
| **Sync Time Interval** | Optional, the interval of sending sync time (C_CS_NA_1) |
| **Remote Pulse Interval** | Optional, the interval of sending remote pulse (C_CI_NA_1) |
| **T0** | T0 timeout, the timeout of establishing TCP connection, unit: second |
| **T1** | T1 timeout, the timeout of waiting for a response, unit: second |
| **T2** | If no I frame is received within T2 time, send S frame, unit: second |
| **T3** | If no I frame is received within T3 time, send test frame, unit: second |
| **W** | Enable sync time (C_CS_NA_1) |

## Configure Data Groups and Tags

After the plug-in is added and configured, the next step is to establish communication between your device and Neuron by adding groups and tags to the Southbound driver.

Once device configuration is completed, navigate to the **South Devices** page. Click on the device card or device row to access the **Group List** page. Here, you can create a new group by clicking on **Create**, then specifying the group name and data collection interval.

Upon successfully creating a group, click on its name to proceed to the **Tag List** page. This page allows you to add device tags for data collection. You'll need to provide information such as the tag address, attributes, and data type.

The point attribute is configured as `Read`, which means that the point will not only regularly report the value of the data point sent by the 104 Server according to the configured `Station Interrogation Interval`, but also regularly report the data according to the `interval` of the group .

The point attribute is configured as `Subscribe`, which means that the point will not only regularly report the value of the data point sent by the 104 Server according to the configured `Station Interrogation Interval`, but also when the data point changes, Neuron will also receive the change data points, and report the data points northbound through the northbound application configuration.

::: tip 
Due to the real-time requirements of the 104 protocol, for points configured as `Subscribe`, Neuron will immediately report the changed data points to the northbound application after receiving the changes in the data points, and will not be subject to the `interval` of the collection group limit.
:::

::: tip 
When the data points of the collection group are all configured as `Subscribe` type, even if there is no change in the data points, Station Interrogation will still be triggered.
:::

The point attribute is configured as `Write`, which means that the point supports Neuron to actively write data to the 104 Server. Note that the read address and write address of the 104 protocol are separated. A point address is either a read point or a There is no write point that can be read and written at the same time. For specific information, please refer to the relevant documents of the 104 protocol.

Point attributes `Subscribe`, `Read`, and `Write` can only be configured individually.

::: tip
It is recommended to configure only one point attribute in the same collection group. For example, in a collection group, only configure points with the `Subscribe` attribute, or only configure points with the `Read` attribute, or only configure `Write` Attribute point.
:::

For information on general configuration items, see [Connect to Southbound Devices](../south-devices.md). The subsequent section will concentrate on configurations specific to the driver.

### Address Format

> IOA

#### IOA
In the IEC60870-5-104 protocol, IOA (Information Object Address) refers to the information object address, which is used to uniquely identify a data object. It is used to specify the address of an information object (remote signaling, remote measurement, remote control, etc.).

### Implementation Specification

#### Device Communication Process

* Support protection against loss and duplication of messages, refer to IEC60870-5-104 5.1
* Support test procedures, refer to IEC60870-5-104 5.2
* Support control using Start/Stop, refer to IEC60870-5-104 5.3
* Support Station initialization, refer to IEC60870-5-104 7.1
* Support acquisition of events, refer to IEC60870-5-104 7.4
* Support general interrogation, refer to IEC60870-5-104 7.5
* Support clock synchronization, refer to IEC60870-5-104 7.6
* Support command transmission, refer to IEC60870-5-104 7.7
* Support transmission of integrated totals, refer to IEC60870-5-104 7.8


#### Supported TypeIDs

##### Monitoring Direction

* M_SP_NA_1: Single-point information (BIT, BOOL)
* M_SP_TB_1: Single-point information with time tag (BIT, BOOL)
* M_DP_NA_1: Double-point information (BIT, BOOL)
* M_DP_TB_1: Double-point information with time tag (BIT, BOOL)
* M_ST_NA_1: Step position information (INT8)
* M_ST_TB_1: Step position information with time tag (INT8)
* M_BO_NA_1: Binary output information (UINT32, INT32)
* M_BO_TB_1: Binary output information with time tag (UINT32, INT32) 
* M_ME_NA_1: Measured value, normalized value (FLOAT32)
* M_ME_TD_1: Measured value with time tag, normalized value (FLOAT32)
* M_ME_NB_1: Measured value, scaled value (UINT16, INT16)
* M_ME_TE_1: Measured value with time tag, scaled value (UINT16, INT16)
* M_ME_NC_1: Measured value, short floating point value (FLOAT32)
* M_ME_TF_1: Measured value with time tag, short floating point value (FLOAT32)
* M_IT_NA_1: Integrated total value (UINT32, INT32)
* M_ME_ND_1: Measured value, normalized value without quality (FLOAT32)

##### Control Direction

* C_SC_NA_1: Single command (BIT, BOOL)
* C_DC_NA_1: Double command (UINT8)
* C_RC_NA_1: Regulating step command (INT8)
* C_SE_NA_1: Set point command, normalized value (FLOAT32, -1.0 ~ 1.0)
* C_SE_NB_1: Set point command, scaled value (UINT16, INT16)
* C_SE_NC_1: Set point command, short floating point value (FLOAT32)
* C_BO_NA_1: Binary output command (UINT32, INT32)

::: tip
Not supported with time tag types: C_SC_TA_1, C_DC_TA_1, C_RC_TA_1, C_SE_TA_1, C_SE_TB_1, C_SE_TC_1, etc.
:::

### Subscribe
IEC60870-5-104 supports the subscription of data changes. In Neuron, you need to configure the Subscribe attribute for the tag. When the device sends the changed data to Neuron, Neuron will send the change message to the corresponding northbound application in time.

::: tip
Tags that support time and quality will optionally upload the quality and time of the tag.
:::

## Use Case

You can simulate an IEC60870-5-104 device and test its connection to Neuron using the IEC 60870-5-104 Server Simulator. For specific steps, refer to [IEC 60870-5-104 Server Simulator](./example/server-simulator/simulator.md).

## Data Monitoring

After completing the point configuration, you can click **Monitoring** -> **Data Monitoring** to view device information and control devices. For details, refer to [Data Monitoring](../../../admin/monitoring.md).