# Definition

Neuron supports 3 kinds of Internet protocols, HTTP API, MQTT and
Websockets. They are widely used in Internet and web applications. MQTT
protocol will be more specific for communicating with cloud application
or IIoT platform. Meanwhile, the Websockets and HTTP API protocols are
used for HMI program or web browsers. These protocols share same JSON
data structure and have same handshake communication processes. These
data structure and handshake communication processes are what we would
talk in details in below.

## UUID

All Neuron instances have its own identity UUID (Universal Unique
Identity) for IIoT platform. There are two ways to give UUID to a
Neuron. First, the UUID can be automatically generated by Neuron when
starting at the first time. Second, This UUID can be assigned in command
line to start Neuron. Neuron will present this UUID to IIoT platform as
a unique ID for the communication token. The UUID **MUST** be 36
characters or less.

For example, UUID: 03c844fc-e381-11e6-b133-000c29158b55

Note: **%UUID%** represents the UUID string of a Neuron.

## MQTT Protocol

Neuron is 100% MQTT compatible. A MQTT broker must be employed in the
communication. Generally, any standard MQTT broker can be used for
communication. However, the following brokers have been well tested for
Neuron and therefore recommended for using in project.

1. EMQ [www.emqx.io](http://www.emqx.io)

2. Mosquitto [www.mosquitto.org](http://www.mosquitto.org)

For the port number setup, if you use port number 8880-9 to connect to
broker, Neuron will treat the connection as SSL secured MQTT protocol
connection. If using port number 1880-9, the gateway will connect to
broker through MQTT protocol without SSL protection.

The last connection details would be username, password and ClientID.
Username and password would be defined by broker. But _Client ID would
be filled with UUID automatically by Neuron._

**_MQTT topic string list_**

Neuron/Broadcast

Neuron/Heartbeat/%UUID%

Neuron/Telemetry/%UUID%

Neuron/Request/%UUID%

Neuron/Response/%UUID%

where %UUID% is a 36 characters UUID string of Neuron.

**_Neuron gateways subscribe topics_**

Neuron/Broadcast

Neuron/Request/%UUID%

**_Neuron gateway publish topics_**

Neuron/Broadcast

Neuron/Heartbeat/%UUID%

Neuron/Telemetry/%UUID%

Neuron/Request/%UUID%

Neuron/Response/%UUID%

**_IIoT Platform subscribe topics_**

Neuron/Broadcast

Neuron/Heartbeat/%UUID%

Neuron/Telemetry/%UUID%

Neuron/Response/%UUID%

**_IIoT Platform publish topics_**

Neuron/Request/%UUID%

During registration process, Neuron will publish repeatedly its UUID to
Neuron/Broadcast topic until it gets back the response from IIoT
platform thought the %UUID%/Request topic. If registration success, it
will publish the Heartbeat information on Neuron/Heartbeat/%UUID% topic
as well as data will be sent though the Neuron/Telemetry/%UUID% topic to
IIoT platform. Meanwhile, it will subscribe the %UUID%/Request topic to
listen command from the IIoT platform. If request comes, the Neuron
would perform the request and send back the answer thought the
%UUID%/Response topic. The topic Neuron/Broadcast are used for Neuron
group internal communication.

## Websockets Protocol

Websockets Protocol is usually used for Neuron user interfaces. Of
course, you may have other communication purpose. The Neuron program
doesn't deny any possibility from implementation. The only thing you
must comply is using below JSON structure for communication. However,
Neuron indeed has provided a web service for users to access the data
and configuration thought the web browser. Type the IP address and Port
7000 in the web browser on the same network. The port no. MUST be 7000
and have no way to be modified.

**_Websockets connection command in javascript_**

websocket = new WebSocket(wsUri, "datathread");

where wsUri are the IP address of Neuron.

**_Here is an HTML example for Websockets connection_**

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>

<meta charset="utf-8" >

<title>WebSocket Test</title>

<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript">

var wsUri = "ws://192.168.1.106:7000/";

var output;

var temp = 0;

function init()

{

output = document.getElementById("output");

testWebSocket();

}

function testWebSocket()

{

websocket = new WebSocket(wsUri, "datathread");

websocket.onopen = function(evt) { onOpen(evt) };

websocket.onclose = function(evt) { onClose(evt) };

websocket.onmessage = function(evt) { onMessage(evt) };

websocket.onerror = function(evt) { onError(evt) };

}

function onOpen(evt)

{

writeToScreen("CONNECTED");

var j={func: 10, wtrm: 'neuron-test-xxx-yyy', name:'root',
pass:'0000'};

var txt = JSON.stringify(j);

doSend(txt);

}

function onClose(evt)

{

writeToScreen("DISCONNECTED");

}

function onMessage(evt)

{

writeToScreen('<span style="color: blue;">RESPONSE: ' + evt.data
+'</span>');

if (temp < 5) {

switch (temp) {

case 1: // read user list

var j1 = {func:13, "wtrm":"DEMO-Neuron-1001"};

break;

case 2: // read user info

var j1 = {func:14, "wtrm":"DEMO-Neuron-1001", name:'joey'};

break;

case 3: // read user list

var j1 = {func:13, "wtrm":"DEMO-Neuron-1001"};

break;

case 4: // read configuration

var j1 = {func:22, "wtrm":"DEMO-Neuron-1001"};

break;

}

var txt1 = JSON.stringify(j1);

doSend(txt1);

}

temp++;

}

function onError(evt)

{

writeToScreen('<span style="color: red;">ERROR:</span> ' +
evt.data);

}

function doSend(message)

{

writeToScreen("SENT: " + message);

websocket.send(message);

}

function writeToScreen(message)

{

var pre = document.createElement("p");

pre.style.wordWrap = "break-word";

pre.innerHTML = message;

output.appendChild(pre);

}

window.addEventListener("load", init, false);

</script>

<h2>WebSocket Test</h2>

<div id="output"></div>
```
