# Allen-Bradley 5000 EtherNet/IP

Allen-Bradley 5000 EtherNet/IP is an upgraded and optimized version of Allen-Bradley ControlLogix 5500 driver, which is suitable for Allen-Bradley 5000 series PLC devices.

## Add Plugin

In **Configuration -> South Devices**, click **Add Device** to create a device node, enter the plugin name, and select **Allen-Bradley 5000 EtherNet/IP** as the plugin type to enable the plugin.

| Field          | Description                |
| -------------- | -------------------------- |
| PLC IP Address | Device ip                  |
| PLC Port       | Device port, default 44818 |

## Configure Data Groups and Tags

After the plug-in is added and configured, the next step is to establish communication between your device and Neuron by adding groups and tags to the Southbound driver.

Once device configuration is completed, navigate to the **South Devices** page. Click on the device card or device row to access the **Group List** page. Here, you can create a new group by clicking on **Create**, then specifying the group name and data collection interval.

Upon successfully creating a group, click on its name to proceed to the **Tag List** page. This page allows you to add device tags for data collection. You'll need to provide information such as the tag address, attributes, and data type.

For information on general configuration items, see [Connect to Southbound Devices](../south-devices.md). The subsequent section will concentrate on configurations specific to the driver.

### Data Types

* INT8
* UINT8
* INT16
* UINT16
* INT32
* UINT32
* INT64
* UINT64
* FLOAT
* DOUBLE
* BOOL
* BIT
* STRING
* WORD
* DWORD
* LWORD

### Address Format

>  TAG NAME

Connect to PLC with PLC software, the name of the point on the PLC is the address of the point in Neuron.

## Data Monitoring

After completing the point configuration, you can click **Monitoring** -> **Data Monitoring** to view device information and control devices. For details, refer to [Data Monitoring](../../../admin/monitoring.md).
